Hello and welcome back.
Today we'll be working with altering tables in our case.
We'll be working with altering tables and Microsoft Eskew all server as you can see I have Microsoft
skills or Amanda Smith Studia open up my database loaded up inside of which I have our newly created
movies stable.
The first thing I want to do is run an inquiry in which all say select all from movies.
So now we execute it.
I will see exactly what we have on site.
We have nice and if you're looking for before a table with four columns and four rows all filled with
data.
Now I forgot to put in one column I want to add a new column called the rectors throw in case on a binge
watch all the movies by Christopher Nolan.
I can do that.
This is where the issue comes in.
It's all about adding this column isn't about the code behind it it's about just the amount of work
I'll have to do all over again and you'll understand what I'm talking about in a second.
So when working with table design we need to write this command ALTER TABLE.
We already work with it.
But basically when we're editing dropping creating a new one editing the existing column we want to
work with alter alter table.
Then we write and table name and then we say alter again but this time or rather in our case we say
add and we just type in our company.
In my case it's going to be director.
And in my case it's going to be of a data type or.
And it's going to be a maximum of 100 characters.
It's if we exit get us everything works perfectly fine and if we stay like this again we can see a new
column that's filled in with Nalls by default and if we just update this.
Sorry if we just refresh the movies and open up the columns we can see the fifth one created here.
So the problem of this is that if I want to edit this data here and I want to put it specific for each
row unique for each row I'll have to go ahead and write a new piece of code in which I will have to
say update.
So when we're working with the table design we want to go ahead and say ALTER TABLE here because we're
working with the data inside of it.
I want to say update movies and I don't want to say set director to be equal to but to be equal to Christopher
Nolan and only in the movie where movie name
equals interstellar.
So now if you run this you can see that one or only one was affected.
And if we just rerun this like all statement we can see that now it's changed and a director is built
here now.
But you can understand that only with four rows of data already we'll have to write this query four
different times and fill it before even eight instances of data.
And that just gets very tiring after a while if you do hungry too hungry trodes it will take you a whole
day of mindless just typing and typing and typing again.
And if you make a typo during that time you will have to spend even more time looking for a typo.
So again I cannot stress this enough.
It's very very important to create your database with a good design that you will not work on later
on and filled that with good data and then you can use all of Great microcell fescue function tools
to help you analyze it extracted and just do very insanely good and efficient stuff.
But inserting the correct data is your biggest struggle as a starting that is scientists.
At least I would say that is the biggest struggle.
So now that I've done this I've decided that it's too much work to create this director field.
Plus I remember all the director's by name anyway so I will not drop it.
All we have to do is go to this alter table statement again because we're not working with data.
We're working with table design.
I'm going to go to alter table movies and here I'm just going to say drop and I'm going to type in the
record.
Now if you run this we can see a message error because the director basically since for nothing.
So what I want to say is drop column director.
So now we execute this it will execute properly.
Because when you altering a table and you adding something you can only add a column and when you were
altering it table you dropped something you can drop a lot of different things and scale gets confused.
So don't forget drop column.
So if we select all we can see that nothing is in here so the Fifth Column disappeared we again back
or need a nice form for table.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture.
Also let's just quickly go ahead and refresh this.
Oh and there is another way of working with columns and tables and Microsoft scale server management
studio.
All they have to do is right click here for example go ahead to properties and here you can go ahead
and see all of your different names schemas.
All of that you can change permissions for the table itself the storage and security.
For now we don't need that.
And if you want to work with columns you can just go ahead.
Right click on the columns.
Create a new column created like that data type.
Allen nulls are not change all the different properties and save it.
Or you can delete the existing ones just by right clicking here you can see go ahead.
Deleted are inserted in here in this space so it certainly oversee a wider range of tools and it's easier
to do it that way.
But again always remember it's good to start working with a great dataset properly started and it's
good to finish working with Gray Davis say it still properly insert it.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and I'll see you in next one.